Object-oriented programming pillars in PHP

1. Abstraction (SRP) Abstract means a concept or an Idea which is not associated with any particular instance. Using abstract class/Interface we express the intent of the class rather than the actual implementation. It allows us to simplify complex reality by modeling classes appropriate to the problem. Abstraction of Data or Hiding of Information is called Abstraction!
Abstraction is selecting data from a larger pool to show only the relevant details of the object to the user. Abstraction “shows” only the essential attributes and “hides” unnecessary information. It helps to reduce programming complexity and effort. It is one of the most important concepts of OOPs.

2. Polymorphism (SRP) Polymorphism is the process of using an operator or function in different ways for different data input. It is the ability to redefine methods for derived classes. We can say that object can behave in different forms is call Polymorphism. In polymorphism, the keyword "interface" is used. Interface can be seen as a contract that has to been implemented.

3. Encapsulation (SRP) Encapsulation hides the implementation details of a class from other objects. Binding of Data and Functions (that manipulate the data) together and keep both safe from outside interference and misuse is called Encapsulation. It helps restrict access to public methods. Instance variables are kept private and accessor methods (getters and setters)are made public to achieve this. Encapsulation has three methods which are public, private and protected. The public method can be accessed from anywhere, be it, inside or outside the class, the private method can only be accessed within the class it is defined and not outside that class while the protected method can be accessed within the class and outside that class only if the class it is used extends the class it is defined.

4. Inheritance (SRP) Inheritance is a way to form new classes using classes that have already been defined. Inheritance enables new objects (children) to take on the properties of existing objects (parents). The "extends" keyword is used here to access the properties in the parent class in the children classes. 